Why Java is a platform independent language?

Why Java is not a pure object oriented language?

What do you understand by an instance variable and a local variable?

What do you mean by data encapsulation?

Tell us something about JIT compiler.
The JIT compiler aids in improving the performance of Java programs by compiling bytecode into native machine code at run time


Can you tell the difference between equals() method and equality operator (==) in Java?

Briefly explain the concept of constructor overloading

Comment on method overloading and overriding by citing relevant examples.

Can we declare one overloaded method as static and another one as non-static?

How do compiler differentiate overloaded methods from duplicate methods?

Is it possible to have two methods in a class with same method signature but different return types?

In “MyClass” , there is a method called “myMethod” with four different overloaded forms. All four different forms have different visibility ( private, protected, public and default). Is “myMethod” properly overloaded?

Can overloaded methods be synchronized? Yes

Can we overload main() method? Yes

Can we declare overloaded methods as final? Yes

In the below class, is constructor overloaded or is method overloaded?

Overloading is the best example of dynamic binding. True or false?  false

Can overloaded method be overrided? Yes

What are the rules to be followed while overriding a method?

Can we override static methods? No

What happens if we change the arguments of overriding method? Need to pass same type of arguments

Can we override protected method of super class as public method in the sub class? No

Can we change the return type of overriding method from Number type to Integer type? Yes

Can we override a super class method without throws clause as a method with throws clause in the sub class?

Can we change an exception of a method with throws clause from SQLException to NumberFormatException while overriding it? No

Can we change an exception of a method with throws clause from unchecked to checked while overriding it?

How do you refer super class version of overridden method in the sub class?

Can we override private methods? No

Can we remove throws clause of a method while overriding it?

Is it possible to override non-static methods as static?No

Can we change an exception of a method with throws clause from checked to unchecked while overriding it?

Can we change the number of exceptions thrown by a method with throws clause while overriding it?

What is difference between Spring Framework and Springboot?

What do you understand by Dependency Injection?

How do we implement DI in Spring Framework?

What is Aspect, Advice, Pointcut, JointPoint and Advice Arguments in AOP?

What is Spring IoC Container?

What is a Spring Bean?

What is the importance of Spring bean configuration file?

What is the importance of Spring bean configuration file?

What are different ways to configure a class as Spring Bean?

What are the different scopes of Spring Bean?

How to get ServletContext and ServletConfig object in a Spring Bean?

What is Bean wiring and @Autowired annotation?

What are different types of Spring Bean autowiring?

Does Spring Bean provide thread safety?

What is a Controller in Spring MVC?

What’s the difference between @Component, @Controller, @Repository & @Service annotations in Spring?

What is DispatcherServlet and ContextLoaderListener?

What is ViewResolver in Spring?

What is MetaSpace? How does it differ from PermGen?
 
Bean life cycle in Java Spring
 
what is marker interface in java?
 
Is it possible to import the same class or package twice in Java and what happens to it during runtime?

Stram concept 

Difference between map vs flatmap.

What is sysnchronization in thread.

What is Executor framework ?

Real life scenario of stream api.

In enterprise application or spring boot application I want to calculate initial time and end time of request processing , How we can achieve ?

How transaction management work in spring boot application ?

We also use optimistic locking in entity level and mainting version number , if multiple threads tries to get updated the same record then it will update the version in db table.

Basically for calculating request in and end time , we need to call before and after end of method and will AOP pointcuts when call enter we invoked AOP controller there we provided jointcut and get current time and once the method execution we can invoke after advice for loggin out 
end time.

In Rest controller how do we apply security.

Difference between Abstraction vs encapuulation.

What is mean by immumtable object and how we can create.

Difference between Hashtable and concurent Hashmap.

Difference between Iterator and ListItertor.

What is the serialization.

What is mean Depedancy injection and IOC container?

What is Delegation Hierarchy Algorithm ?

Given a list of integers, find out all the even numbers exist in the list using Stream functions?

Given a list of integers, find out all the numbers starting with 1 using Stream functions?

How to find duplicate elements in a given integers list in java using Stream functions?

Given the list of integers, find the first element of the list using Stream functions?

Given a list of integers, find the total number of elements present in the list using Stream functions?

Given a list of integers, find the maximum value element present in it using Stream functions?

Given a String, find the first non-repeated character in it using Stream functions?

Given a String, find the first repeated character in it using Stream functions?

Given a list of integers, sort all the values present in it using Stream functions?

Given a list of integers, sort all the values present in it in descending order using Stream functions?

Given a list of employees, you need to filter all the employee whose age is greater than 20 and print the employee names.(Java 8 APIs only)

Given the list of employees, count number of employees with age 25?

Given the list of employees, find the employee with name “Mary”.

Given a list of employee, find maximum age of employee?

Given a list of employees, sort all the employee on the basis of age? Use java 8 APIs only.

Join the all employee names with “,” using java 8?

Given the list of employee, group them by employee name?

Difference between Intermediate and terminal operations in Stream?

Given the list of numbers, remove the duplicate elements from the list.

Difference between Stream’s findFirst() and findAny()?

Given a list of numbers, square them and filter the numbers which are greater 10000 and then find average of them.( Java 8 APIs only);

Questions:---

how internally Arraylist work?

What happens if an element is removed from an ArrayList?
When items are deleted from an ArrayList in Java, the gap produced by the removal of an element must be filled in the underlying array using either remove (int I (i.e. using index) or remove (Object o). Shifting any following components to the left does this (subtracts one from their indices). It is done via the System.arrayCopy method.

System.arraycopy(elementData, index+1, elementData, index, numMoved);  
The source position is index+1, while the destination position is index. Because the element at position index has been deleted, items beginning at index+1 are transferred to the destination starting at index.

what are the changes in hashmap in java 8
In Java 8, HashMap replaces the linked list with another useful data structure i.e. binary tree on breaching a certain threshold, which is known as TREEIFY_THRESHOLD. Once this threshold is reached the linked list of Entries is converted to the TreeNodes which reduces the time complexity from O(n) to O(log(n)).

How can disable the dependencies to include in project in spring boot?

Which kind of data will be stored in level2 cache in hibernate?

Diff between putMpping and patchmapping in REST api?

Diff between JPA and HB?

How to secure API in springboot?

Caching in Springboot?

What is Circuit breaker and how to implement in microservice architecture?

What is actuator in springboot?

find missing no from below array?
int a[]={1,2,3,5};

Sort in descending order and remove second ele using java 8?
List<String> sl=Arrays.asList("1","3","4","5","6");

Sort below list in descending order on the basis of last name using java 8?
List<String> sl=Arrays.asList("Sachin Tendulakar","Mahendra Dhoni","Virat Kohali","Rohit Sharma");

Create unique ele list and print first unique ele?
int aa[]={1,2,3,4,2,6,3,1};

List<Emp> id,name,sal
wnats to get the list id which will be sorting on the basis of name and sal >20000?

What is the use of idempotency? and which methods are idempotent.

What is use of @Conditional annotation?

Suppose i interchange the @service ,@Repository annotation in spring boot will it work?

What is best practice to developed REST API endpoint?  Http2.0

Global Exception handling in springboot?


